>> Kent C. Dodds: Cool.
So let me intro you to the Cypress
installation in the main app.
And then we can,
I can set you free on the exercise.
So, we're actually gonna be
doing a login thing again.
This is intentional, like the fact that
your unit test, your integration test,
and your end to end tests are all
actually the exact same thing.
It's intentional, if I'm gonna have
an end to end task on all this and
it covers all the same stuff, I'd probably
just have the end to end test honestly.
And then we don't have any edge
cases really in the unit test
that we're covering.
So it's, there's no point.
But the reason that I did it for the
workshop is so that you're really familiar
with how this thing works and so you don't
have to learn more domain specific stuff.
So you can see how it works
in a real world application,
a real world setup without having to
learn a lot of domain specific stuff.
Okay, so if you pop open your
package.json, you'll see a bunch of
scripts here, lots of these are just
kinda workshop specific things.
The one that we're going to be
working with is the test :ete.
And that's gonna open up your development
server and it'll open up Cypress.
So this application is a fair amount
more complicated than that calculator.
Now, we have to open both the,
start up the server.
And the client server, and so
we're doing a fair bit more stuff.
And that's generally
the idea behind end-to-end,
is that you have to have more
things set up and ready to go,
just like you would in your
development process anyway.
So often setting up
end-to-end test doesn't take
much more than setting up a new developer
for their development environment.
But anyway, you can go ahead and
in the root directory of the repository,
run npm run test:e2e, and
this should pop open everything for you.
But started our server.
Started up Cypress, and
you should have a couple of tests in here.
You can check out the post one later.
I have that one kind of as an example
something that's not the login and
registration.
Yeah, so for us,
we're going to look at the registration.
I'll just demo that for you,
or I'll show you the test and
then I'll let you go on the exercise for
registration.
But yeah, you can click run all test
just to see what things look like.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And, so this is one
of the reasons I don't do Cypress for
everything, because it like sometimes
takes a really long time to start.
There we go.
>> Kent C. Dodds: [SOUND] So that's gonna
find and like yeah I just, I love this.
I can go and see okay,
let's just click right here.
And that's what it looks
like at that point in time.
We're on this page and
that's what its doing, you can click and
see what the down looks like.
I'm seeing Peter shake his heads like
all those hours wasted with Selenium.
Okay, so there are couple of things
am just gonna show you right
here in Cyprus that we're doing that.
I think it is an important
aspect of testing, here,
actually maybe I'll show
you the test instead.
Go to Cyprus>e2e>post.
So we have tests already for
the login and registration.
And so, often in end to end
test what I'll see is on
every single test is testing login or
registration and login.
Because you wanna have
a fresh new user for
checking out or adding items
to your cart and checking out.
And then you wanna fresh new user for
going to the settings and
updating your settings and saving that.
And so you wind up testing
the registration login over and over and
over again.
So with cyprus, because your tests
are actually running in the same
context as your application,
you can do a fair amount more.
And, so this post actually we
have a custom command that we
use in this post for login as new user.
If we check out our support and
then the commands here,
we'll see we have login as a new user,
uses a create new user API.
And here, we're actually using the same
generate login form that you were using in
your other test,
cuz this is all running in the browser.
It's bundled out with, actually, it's
not WebPack, it's Browserify, fun fact.
But we get a user form, and
then we create a test user.
We post directly to the endpoint for
the register.
So we're like, this is the browser
firing this request as part of our test.
And we return that user object.
And so then when that happens,
we set that item in local storage, and
we return the user.
And so we've already tested the whole
process of login registration,
we're confident about that.
And so because of that,
we can take this shortcut.
And this.
This is actually something you can
do with a redux, your redux store.
You could, because your tests are running
in the same context as your application.
When Cypress is running, you can expose
your redux store to Cypress, as a global
variable, and Cypress can initialize
your redux store to a certain state.
And you can start off from there.
And so at that point, it ceases to
become a full end to end test and
starts to become a much more focused,
still sort of end to end test,
because it's hitting your server.
In addition, the Cypress folks really want
me to mention that Cypress can be used for
integration and unit test as well.
So you can mark out the server, it has
a really powerful capability to run that.
We're not doing that here,
cuz I'm pretty happy with Jest, but
you can really do that it's very powerful.
And you can also, we could render a react
component in our test to the document and
then interact with it just using Cypress.
So if that sounds interesting to you,
there's a lot of resources
to figure that out.
Okay, so
let's take a look at the register.
And here we describe our authentication
list view registration, I guess.
But before each, you're gonna log out.
You can look at the custom command for
logouts right here.
We take Cypress, or we get the window and
for its local storage,
we're going to invoke remove item.
Let me come back to why it looks so
funny in a second.
And then after you've successfully
made sure that you've logged out,
then we'll visit to the homepage.
And then because we're
using Cypress test utils,
we have some really nice selectors for
this.
So we'll get the registration link,
we'll click on it.
Then we'll get the username field,
we'll fill out the username.
We generated a random form.
Same for the password,
then we'll click on the submit button.
And then we'll assert that we
were directed to the homepage.
That assert route is just this thing.
Kinda feel like that should be built in,
to be honest, but it is what it is.
And then we'll verify that
the user's display name is there.
We could also verify the logout
button is there too.
But this is similar to what
your exercise will be.
And it just gives you kind of an idea
of what this experience is like.
So before I push you off on that,
I mentioned that I would talk
about why this looks so funny.
Why isn't it just
window.localstorage.removeitemtoken?
So the reason that it's
not just like regular old
JavaScript in using these Cypress APIs,
is because
in the world of like humans interacting
with that web applications.
The human side of the interaction
is nothing but synchronous.
Everything happens one after the other.
You can't have a user clicking
on two buttons at the same time.
You can't fire two quick events or
anything like that.
And so in Cypress actually,
every single one of these commands.
Probably a better example is here, every
one of these commands is actually like all
of this code is running synchronously,
right?
So there's no like async wait or
anything going on here.
And so what you're doing is,
think of it like this.
You're writing down instructions
on a piece of paper, and
then you're handing that
piece of paper to Cy.
I kind of wanna call this variable user.
So Cy is like your user.
You say here Cy,
could you do these things for me?
And Cy looks at it, and
it does them one at a time.
And by default, it's gonna say, I'm gonna
keep trying to do this for four seconds,
and if I can't do it anymore,
then I'm gonna say, okay, the test broke.
And you can change that timeout.
So that's basically the idea behind
Cypress's queueing system, and
that's why some of the APIs
are kind of weird.
Some of the assertions are like,
just the fact that all of these happens,
all these code executes synchronously,
but it's actually queueing
up the queueing system, makes some
of the APIs a little less ergonomic.
But if you're familiar with Chai,
the test in the library from that
is commonly use with Mocha, then some of
these will look kind of familiar to you.
And you can check out the docs.
Like I said,
Cypress is very well documented.
Okay, any questions before we
launch off into the exercise?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, cool.
So your excercise will live right in here.
Login.todo.
And I give you some instructions
here on what you're supposed to do.
In your case you are gonna
have to create a new user.
But you don't wanna have it log in, so
just create new user, and yeah, and
then go through the log in.